Okay, is it
15? Okay, now, would you list the important events
you think of in terms of organization that occur
that change the nature of oceanography? Well,
scientifically, from the scientific point of
view, the first that I can, in my time, was the
writing of the book The Oceans by Spherdrup,
Johnson, and Fleming.
The second was due to his And Sproul's
forethought, getting 15 and more picked young
scientists trained who became head or leaders in
practically every oceanographic institution in
the country and was the nucleus on which the
scientific development could be built. The third
was the Office of Naval Research Organization for
the purpose of supporting research in the
government.
Organization-wise, oh, and then you must put into
consideration the work of Revelle and Bennett and
Wakelin and all of that group and the expansion of
oceanography in such things as the International
Geophysical Year, and following on down through
those projects to the International Decade of
Ocean Exploration, which is now going on. Those
plans were absolutely essential. Also
important, both scientifically and
organization-wise, was the Informal
Coordinating Committee within the Navy, which
became the Interagency Oceanographic
Committee, which became Wenck's commission
under Humphrey toward the last. The TANOC plans
put out by ONR, the establishment under Harrison
Brown the great work of defining what
oceanography should do, the National Committee
on Oceanography, NASCO,
the follow-through of
the Stratton Report, which unfortunately met a
political situation which was not fruitful.
These were some of the milestones, as I saw them,
Now, finally, if you should like to be remembered
for your major contribution to oceanography,
what would you choose? Myself? For yourself. That
was a good program, man.